most of us are all too aware of the
risks a young driver poses behind the
wheel add the distractions of cell
phones texting and impaired driving and
you have a deadly combination many
experts believe the real issue is a
young drivers inability to connect
personally with the possible
consequences with one simple decision
young drivers can experience those
consequences without putting you me or
themselves at risk one simple decision
uses realistic simulation first-person
consequence videos and reality checks to
provide a more personal and impactful
impression as compared to a brochure
poster or advertisement simulation
allows drivers to experience the impact
fit texting cell phones substance use
and fatigue have on their ability to
manage basic driving situations the
distraction drive primarily focuses on
cell phones texting and peer
distractions but also reinforces
messages about seatbelt views drivers
engage in texting and phone
conversations as part of a scripted
story
the driver is given a choice to use
their own phone or an on-screen virtual
phone to interact with the program if
the driver crashes or commits any other
traffic violation they are taken through
the consequences step by step as if they
were living it themselves in the real
world every action has a consequence
which is the underlying premise of one
simple decision each High Definition
consequence video is shot in
first-person allowing the driver to feel
the impact as though living through the
experience similar to the distracted
drive the impaired portion of the
program allows the driver to experience
the effects of drugs or alcohol on their
ability to drive
the simulation is set to mimic the
delayed response time often experienced
by one who is under the influence of
drugs or alcohol another component to
one simple decision is the reality check
videos these are candid interactions
with law enforcement judicial and trauma
personnel designed to clarify
misconceptions about what happens in the
real world as a result of making bad
choices behind the wheel
reality check videos focus on distracted
driving impaired driving and the use of
seatbelts one simple decision gets a
powerful message across you risk your
health your freedom and your future when
you drive distracted or impaired
embedded into one simple decision is the
ability to create custom surveys that
collect valuable data on how the program
is reaching young drivers or to promote
your specific message for example pre
and post drive surveys can be created
that ask the driver to comment on their
likelihood of texting before and then
again after completing the program
secure online access to the data will
allow you to view or generate reports
from your data virtual driver
interactive offers multiple
state-of-the-art Hardware options for
your program whether you require
seamless portability or a self-contained
trainer one simple decision provides a
cost-effective tangible and highly
visible method of addressing the issues
of impaired and distracted driving in an
environment that young drivers get
government agencies law enforcement
highway safety advocates and educators
can now influence tens of thousands of
drivers before they make the fatal
decision to drive impaired or distracted
and we certainly look forward to helping
you become a hero in your community we
could even assist in identifying grants
for your cause
we'd like to thank the Sacramento County
Sheriff's Department Sacramento County
Superior Court UC Davis Medical Center
Sutter Roseville Medical Center Cal Star
Shock Trauma rescue and the Sacramento
Bee who all had a key role in making one
simple decision a reality to learn more
about virtual driver interactive and one
simple decision please visit us online
at driver interactive calm or call us at
area code eight seven seven seven four
six eight three three two